>> Woodruff: AS MILITANTS SEIZE
CONTROL OF THE LARGEST CHRISTIAN
CITY IN IRAQ, PRESIDENT OBAMA
WEIGHS U.S. AIR SUPPORT TO BRING
AID TO TRAPPED REFUGEES.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, RUSSIA
BANS U.S. AND EUROPEAN FOOD
IMPORTS FOR A YEAR.
RETALIATING FOR SANCTIONS
IMPOSED BY THE WEST OVER
MOSCOW'S SUPPORT FOR REBELS IN
UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, A LOOK BACK
FORTY YEARS AGO, PRESIDENT
RICHARD NIXON EXITED THE WHITE
HOUSE AS THE FIRST AND ONLY
PRESIDENT TO RESIGN FROM OFFICE.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY RETURNED TO
AFGHANISTAN TODAY, IN AN URGENT
BID TO END THE DEADLOCK OVER THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
IN KABUL, HE PRESSED THE TWO
CANDIDATES, ABDULLAH ABDULLAH
AND ASHRAF GHANI, TO ACCEPT
RESULTS FROM AN ONGOING AUDIT OF
VOTES FROM THE JUNE RUNOFF.
THE U.S. WANTS A NATIONAL UNITY
GOVERNMENT FORMED BY NEXT MONTH.
ALL U.S. COMBAT FORCES ARE DUE
TO LEAVE AFGHANISTAN BY YEAR'S
END.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, THE BODY
OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR GENERAL
HAROLD GREENE ARRIVED BACK IN
THE U.S.
HE WAS KILLED THIS WEEK BY AN
AFGHAN SOLDIER OUTSIDE KABUL.
TROOPS CARRIED THE FLAG-DRAPED
METAL CASE OFF A C-17 CARGO
PLANE AT DOVER AIR FORCE BASE IN
DELAWARE.
THE GENERAL'S FAMILY AND
OFFICIALS, INCLUDING ARMY CHIEF
OF STAFF, GENERAL RAY ORDIERNO,
WERE ON HAND.
>> Ifill: THIS WAS THE FINAL DAY
OF A 72-HOUR TRUCE BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND HAMAS WITH
NEGOTIATIONS CONTINUING IN EGYPT
FOR A LONGER CEASE-FIRE.
IN GAZA, SEVERAL THOUSAND
PALESTINIANS MARCHED IN SUPPORT
OF HAMAS.
A SPOKESMAN FOR THE MILITANTS
INSISTED THERE CAN BE NO PEACE
UNTIL THE BLOCKADE OF GAZA IS
LIFTED.
>> ( translated ): THE TALKS IN
CAIRO ARE GOING ON AND WE ARE
STILL WAITING TO HEAR THE
ANSWERS.
WE HAVE FAIR AND LEGAL DEMANDS
AND THE ISRAELI OCCUPATION HAS
NO CHOICE EXCEPT TO RESPOND TO
OUR DEMANDS.
THERE WILL BE NO CEASE-FIRE AND
THE ENEMY WILL NOT LIVE IN
SECURITY WHILE PALESTINIANS
AREN'T LIVING IN REAL SECURITY.
>> Ifill: IN TURN, ISRAELI
OFFICIALS HAVE SAID HAMAS MUSTRE
CAN END.
>> Woodruff: IN CAMBODIA, TWO OF
THE LAST LEADERS OF THE KHMER
ROUGE REIGN OF TERROR WERE
CONVICTED TODAY OF CRIMES
AGAINST HUMANITY.
THE FANATICAL COMMUNIST MOVEMENT
KILLED NEARLY TWO MILLION PEOPLE
IN THE LATE 1970'S.
A QUARTER OF THE POPULATION.
83-YEAR OLD KHIEU SAMPHAN AND
88-YEAR-OLD NUON CHEA REMAINED
STOIC TODAY AS THE VERDICT WAS
READ.
THEY WERE SENTENCED TO LIFE IN
PRISON BY A U.N.-BACKED
TRIBUNAL.
>> ( translated ): THIS VERDICT
CANNOT TURN BACK TIME OR THE
LIVES OF THOSE WHO DIED OR WERE
KILLED UNDER THE SUN'S HEAT,
OVERWORKED, STARVED.
THIS VERDICT WILL ALSO NOT
REUNITE THE FAMILIES WHO HAVE
BEEN SEPARATED DUE TO THEIR
HOWEVER, THIS VERDICT CAN
PROVIDE SOME JUSTICE AND RESTORE
THE RESPECT OF VICTIMS.
>> Woodruff: THE KHMER ROUGE'S
SUPREME LEADER, POL POT, WAS
NEVER TRIED, AND DIED IN 1998.
>> Ifill: THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT
HAS GRANTED PERMISSION TO EDWARD
SNOWDEN TO REMAIN IN RUSSIA FOR
THREE MORE YEARS.
HIS ONE-YEAR ASYLUM EXPIRED
AUGUST FIRST.
SNOWDEN FACES ESPIONAGE CHARGES
IN THE U.S. FOR LEAKING
EXTENSIVE RECORDS ON
SURVEILLANCE BY THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, A JURY IN DETROIT
CONVICTED A WHITE HOMEOWNER
TODAY OF KILLING AN UNARMED
BLACK TEENAGER ON HIS FRONT
PORCH, LAST NOVEMBER.
THEODORE WAFER FIRED A SHOTGUN
AT RENISHA MCBRIDE, AFTER SHE
KNOCKED AT HIS DOOR, EARLY IN
THE MORNING.
HE SAID HE THOUGHT IT WAS A
BREAK-IN.
PROSECUTORS SAID MCBRIDE WAS
DRUNK AND HAD WRECKED HER CAR
AND WAS LOOKING FOR HELP.
THE CASE SPARKED COMPARISONS TO
THE TRAYVON MARTIN KILLING IN
FLORIDA.
>> Ifill: HAWAII IS BRACING FOR
HURRICANE ISELLES ARRIVAL
TONIGHT, THE FIRST DIRECT HIT ON
THE STATE IN MORE THAN 20 YEARS.
THE STORM COULD ARRIVE WITH
WINDS OF 85 MILES AN HOUR AND
HEAVY RAIN, BUT GOVERNOR NEIL
ABERCROMBIE COUNSELED RESIDENTS
AND TOURISTS TODAY NOT TO PANIC.
>> WE ALL HAVE TO HAVE
CONFIDENCE IN ONE ANOTHER.
AND I WANT TO ASSURE THE PUBLIC
THAT FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF
THOSE THAT YOU HAVE APPOINTED,
WHO HAVE THE JURISDICTION, WHO
HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY, WE'RE
READY.
AND IF WE ALL WORK TOGETHER
WE'RE GOING TO COME THROUGH THIS
IN VERY FINE FASHION.
>> Ifill: A SECOND HURRICANE IS
ALSO HEADED TOWARD HAWAII, BUT
IS STILL SEVERAL DAYS AWAY.
AND IF THAT WEREN'T ENOUGH, A
MODERATE EARTHQUAKE JOLTED THE
AREA TODAY.
THERE WERE NO REPORTS OF DAMAGE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
SIGNED A BILL TO HELP VETERANS
WHO'VE ENDURED LONG WAITS FOR
HEALTH CARE.
THE CEREMONY TODAY, AT FORT
BELVOIR, VIRGINIA, INVOLVED A
$16 BILLION MEASURE.
IT WILL PAY FOR HIRING THOUSANDS
MORE V.A. DOCTORS AND NURSES,
AND FOR VETS TO SEE PRIVATE
DOCTORS IN SOME CASES.
THE NEW LAW ALSO MAKES IT EASIER
TO FIRE SENIOR V.A. OFFICIALS
FOR POOR PERFORMANCE.
>> Ifill: THE TOP CONFERENCES IN
COLLEGE SPORTS MOVED A BIG STEP
CLOSER TO MAKING THEIR OWN RULES
ON EVERYTHING FROM SCHOLARSHIPS
TO RECRUITING.
THE N.C.A.A. GOVERNING BOARD
VOTED TO LET THE FIVE RICHEST
CONFERENCES MAKE UNILATERAL
CHANGES IN SOME LONGSTANDING
RULES.
THE NEW SYSTEM COULD TAKE EFFECT
IN JANUARY UNLESS OTHER SCHOOLS
COMBINE TO VOTE DOWN THE
CHANGES.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STREET
TODAY, THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL
AVERAGE LOST 75 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 16,368; THE NASDAQ FELL 20
POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW 4,335; AND
THE S&P 500 SLIPPED TEN TO
FINISH AT 1,909.
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD ON THE
NEWSHOUR, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION CONSIDERS
MILITARY OPTIONS TO SUPPORT
REFUGEES FLEEING ISLAMIC
MILITANTS IN IRAQ.
RUSSIA BANS WESTERN FOOD IMPORTS
FOR ONE YEAR.
REEVALUATING CRIME AND
PUNISHMENT IN AMERICA'S JAILS
AND PRISONS.
AND THE LEGACY OF WATERGATE, 40
YEARS AFTER PRESIDENT RICHARD
NIXON RESIGNED.
>> Woodruff: AS THE HUMANITARIAN
SITUATION GROWS DIMMER BY THE
HOUR FOR SOME IN NORTHERN IRAQ,
THE WHITE HOUSE IS NOW
CONSIDERING TAKING MILITARY
ACTION AGAINST SUNNI EXTREMISTS
INSIDE THE COUNTRY.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
>> ANY SORT OF MILITARY ACTION
THAT WOULD BE TAKEN IN IRAQ
WOULD BE VERY LIMITED IN SCOPE.
>> Reporter: THAT WAS THE
OFFICIAL WORD AT THE WHITE
HOUSE, AMID REPORTS THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS CONSIDERING
AIR STRIKES AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP.
THE SUNNI EXTREMISTS HAVE
RENEWED THEIR SURGE ACROSS
NORTHERN IRAQ.
CAPTURING MORE VILLAGES AND
SEIZING THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST
DAM TODAY.
THEIR ADVANCE HAS SENT THOUSANDS
OF CHRISTIANS AND YAZIDIS
FLEEING IN THE FACE OF
ULTIMATUMS TO CONVERT TO ISLAM,
PAY HEAVY FINES OR FACE DEATH.
THE YAZIDIS, WHO ADHERE TO THEIR
OWN ANCIENT RELIGION, LEFT THEIR
TOWN OF SINJAR, AND MANY HAVE
BEEN TRAPPED IN NEARBY MOUNTAINS
WITHOUT FOOD.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JOSH
EARNEST CALLS THE SITUATION A
CATASTROPHE.
>> THE HUMANITARIAN SITUATION IS
DEEPLY DISTURBING THERE, AND
IT'S ONE THAT WE ARE FOLLOWINGL.
THAT SAID, IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
EVERYONE TO UNDERSTAND AND THE
PRESIDENT'S MADE THIS CLEAR THAT
THERE ARE NO AMERICAN MILITARY
SOLUTIONS TO THE PROBLEMS IN
IRAQ.
WE CAN'T SOLVE THESE PROBLEMS
FOR THEM.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, THE U.N.
HAS BEGUN SHELTERING HUNDREDS OF
YAZIDIS, AND OTHERS HAVE
STREAMED ACROSS THE TURKISH
BORDER.
BUT AT LEAST 40 CHILDREN HAVE
ALREADY DIED FROM DEHYDRATION.
>> ( translated ): WHAT WE WANT
IS TO JUST RESCUE THESE PEOPLE
FROM THE DANGER ZONE.
WE DON'T WANT ANYTHING ELSE.
WE DON'T WANT MONEY, WE DON'T
WANT CARS, WE DON'T WANT
DONATIONS, WE DON'T WANT FOOD,
WE DON'T WANT ANYTHING.
IF THEY DON'T GET WATER AND FOOD
TO THOSE TRAPPED OR GET THEM
OUT, IT WILL BE A DISASTER.
>> Reporter: FOR MORE ON WHAT
THE WHITE HOUSE IS CONSIDERING
ON IRAQ I'M JOINED BY KAREN
DEYOUNG WHO IS REPORTING ON THE
STORY FOR THE "WASHINGTON POST."
>> I'M HEARING THAT THAT'S NOT
TRUE.
I THINK THAT THE PENTAGON AND
THE CENTRAL COMMAND THAT WILL BE
RUNNING THIS OPERATION IF AND
WHEN IT'S APPROVED IS STILL
WAITING FOR THE PRESIDENT TO
SIGN OFF ON ANY ACTIVITY AT ALL
EITHER HUMANITARIAN OR ANY AIR
STRIKES.
>> Sreenivasan: WE ALSO HAD
HEARD THE ADMINISTRATION SAY
TODAY THAT ANY MILITARY ACTION
WOULD O ONLY BE IF IT WAS IN LIE
WITH CORE AMERICAN OBJECTIVES.
WHAT IS THAT RATIONALE NOW?
>> WELL, ENG THAT THEY WOULD SAY
THAT HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE AND
PREVENTING THE ACTUAL FALL OF
IRAQ OR FURTHER GAINS BY THE
ISLAMISTS CERTAINLY TOWARD
BAGHDAD WOULD NOT BE IN AMERICAN
INTEREST SO THAT WOULD BE A
PRETTY BROADLY-DEFINED
DEFINITION OF AMERICAN
INTERESTS.
I THINK THAT THESE ENCROACHMENT
INTO KURDISH TERRITORY HAVE SORT
OF CHANGED THE EQUATION VERY
QUICKLY, LITERALLY OVERNIGHT FOR
THE UNITED STATES.
THEY WERE PREPARED TO ALLOW THE
SITUATION TO STAND AS IT HAS
BEEN FOR THE PAST COUPLE OF
WEEKS WHILE THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT
TRIED TO FORM A NEW
ADMINISTRATION THAT CAN REACH
OUT TO MINORITIES THERE, BUT
HAVING THE ISLAMIST FORCES MOVE
INTO KURDISTAN, WHICH HAS BEEN
RELATIVELY PEACEFUL THROUGHOUT
THIS CRISIS, I THINK HAS CHANGED
THE SITUATION CONSIDERABLY.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT WAS THERE
A TIPPLE POINT EVENT THAT THEY
DESCRIBE CONSIDERING THAT THE IS
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP HAS BEEN ON
A FAIRLY AGGRESSIVE MARCH FOR
THE LAST MONTH?
>> I THINK THEY WERE FAIRLY
CONFIDENT THE KURDISH MILITARY
FORCES COULD HOLD THE LINE IN
KURDISTAN AND THEY ALSO DIDN'T
THINK THE ISLAMIST FORCES HAD
INDICATED THEY WERE INTERESTED
AT THIS POINT IN MOVING INTO
KURDISTAN, BUT THE FACT THAT
LITERALLY TENS OF THOUSANDS IF
NOT HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
IRAQIS FROM PLACES THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN TAKEN OVER BY THE
MILITANTS HAVE POURED INTO
KURDISTAN, AND THE FACT THAT,
ALL OF A SUDDEN THIS THE
ISLAMISTS HAVE ACTUALLY STARTED
ATTACKING KURDISH TOWNS AND
CITIES I THINK, AGAIN, HAS MADE
THEM SIT UP AND SAY, WHOA,
THIS -- YOU KNOW, THIS CANNOT
STAND.
AGAIN.
YO, YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER THATINS
ONE OF THE TWO AMERICAN FUSION
CENTERS, THE COMMUNICATION
CENTERS THAT THE U.S. FORCES
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS SENT
THERE TO ASSIST THE IRAQIS IS
LOCATED, THE OTHER ONE IS IN
BAGHDAD.
ISLAMIST FORCES ARE NOW ABOUT
40 MILES AWAY FROM THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
DEBATE IN THE WHITE HOUSE NOW?
WHAT'S BEING CONSIDERED?
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE IS A
STRONG DEBATE AT THIS POINT.
I THINK THE QUESTION IS
CERTAINLY WHETHER OR NOT AIR
STRIKES COULD HELP OR HARM THE
SITUATION AND IF THIS IS THE
MOMENT THAT THIS ACTION THAT'S
BEEN SO STRONGLY RESISTED BY THE
ADMINISTRATION UP UNTIL NOW CAN
ACTUALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE
WITHOUT MAKING THE SITUATION
WORSE.
I THINK THE DECISION HAS PRETTY
MUCH BEEN MADE ON THE
HUMANITARIAN AID DROPS WHICH IS
A SEPARATE OPERATION.
THERE WAS SOME EFFORT TODAY TO
OPEN A CORRIDOR TO EVACUATE
THESE PEOPLE WHO, AS YOU
DESCRIBED, ARE ON THE MOUNTAIN
TOP.
AS FAR AS I KNOW, THAT HAS NOT
WORKED BECAUSE THE ISLAMISTS
HAVE BEEN SHELLING THAT
EVACUATION AND THESE PEOPLE ARE
STUCK THERE WITH NO FOOD, WATER
AND NO SHELTER.
>> Sreenivasan: WOULD THIS
HUMANITARIAN AID BE LIMITED TO
THIS SPECIFIC ZONE?
>> THAT'S NOT CLEAR TO ME,
ALTHOUGH THAT WOULD CERTAINLY BE
THE INITIAL PLACE.
YOU KNOW, THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT
HAS TRIED TO DEVELOP SOME
ASSISTANCE TO THESE PEOPLE.
DIDN'T WORK OUT TOO WELL.
THEY HAD CRATES OF WATER WHICH
CRACKED APART WHEN THEY HIT THE
GROUND.
YOU KNOW, THE UNITED STATES HAS
A LOT OF EXPERIENCE DOING THIS
AND EXPERIENCE IN THIS
PARTICULAR AREA DOING IT.
YOU REMEMBER IN 1991 THERE WERE
SIMILAR AIR DROPS BY U.S.
FORCES.
THIS WAS WHEN THE REST OF IRAQ
WAS CONTROLLED BY SADDAM
HUSSEIN.
BUT AT THAT TIME UNITED STATES
SEND GROUPS INTO KURDISTAN TO
WALL OFF THE AREA FROM SADDAM
HUSSEIN'S FORCES.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S BEEN
CONTEMPLATED NOW.
BUT I THINK THE HUMANITARIAN
ASSISTANCE IS SOMETHING THAT
THEY'LL LIKELY DO AND DO FAIRLY
SOON AND IT WOULD START IN THIS
AREA.
>> Sreenivasan: KAREN DEYOUNG
OF "THE WASHINGTON POST," THANK
YOU SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Ifill: RUSSIA FORMALLY BANNED
IMPORTS OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
FROM THE U.S. AND EUROPE TODAY.
EVEN AS NATO SOUNDED NEW
WARNINGS ABOUT MOSCOW'S MILITARY
MOVES.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> Reporter: FOREIGN FOODS THAT
HAVE LINED THE SHELVES OF
RUSSIA'S GROCERY STORES WILL BE
DISAPPEARING.
FOR A YEAR, EFFECTIVE
IMMEDIATELY, IMPORTS OF FRUIT,
VEGETABLES, MEAT, FISH, POULTRY
AND DAIRY ARE BANNED FROM THE
U.S., EUROPEAN UNION, AUSTRALIA,
CANADA AND NORWAY.
ALL THOSE COUNTRIES HAVE IMPOSED
SANCTIONS PENALIZING RUSSIA, FOR
BACKING REBELS IN EASTERN
UKRAINE.
RUSSIAN PRIME MINISTER DMITRY
MEDVEDEV SAID TODAY THAT MOSCOW
IS ANSWERING IN KIND.
>> ( translated ): ALL THE
MEASURES HAVE A SOLELY
RETALIATORY CHARACTER.
WE DIDN'T WANT SUCH A
DEVELOPMENT OF EVENTS.
WE SINCERELY HOPE THAT OUR
PARTNERS ECONOMIC PRAGMATISM
WILL PREVAIL OVER PETTY
POLITICAL REASONS, AND THEY WILL
THINK, AND NOT TRY TO FRIGHTEN
AND LIMIT RUSSIA.
>> Reporter: NOTWITHSTANDING THE
KREMLIN'S  DEFIANCE, PRESIDENT
OBAMA ARGUES RUSSIA IS HURTING.
HE SPOKE AT A WASHINGTON NEWS
CONFERENCE LAST NIGHT.
>> SANCTIONS ARE WORKING AS
INTENDED IN PUTTING ENORMOUS
PRESSURE AND STRAIN ON THE
RUSSIAN ECONOMY.
THE ECONOMY HAS GROUND TO A
HALT.
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN $100 BILLION
AND $200 BILLION OF CAPITAL
FLIGHT HAS TAKEN PLACE.
>> Reporter: WHAT'S MORE, U.S.
OFFICIALS SAID TODAY, RUSSIA IS,
IN EFFECT, IMPOSING SANCTIONS ON
ITS OWN PEOPLE, BY BANNING THE
MAIN SOURCES OF IMPORTS THAT
ACCOUNT FOR ONE-QUARTER OF FOOD
CONSUMPTION IN RUSSIA AND A MUCH
HIGHER PERCENTAGE IN THE MAJOR
CITIES.
TODAY, A TOP U.S. TREASURY
OFFICIAL LEFT OPEN THE
POSSIBILITY OF MORE U.S.
SANCTIONS IF RUSSIA DOES NOT RE-
THINK ITS ACTIONS TOWARD
UKRAINE.
BUT THERE'S LITTLE SIGN OF THAT.
INSTEAD, NATO NOW ESTIMATES
20,000 RUSSIAN TROOPS HAVE
MASSED NEAR THE BORDER AND SAYS
THEY COULD BE GETTING READY TO
INVADE UNDER THE GUISE OF A
HUMANITARIAN MISSION.
JUST THIS WEEK, IN FACT, RUSSIA
CALLED A SESSION OF THE U.N.
SECURITY COUNCIL TO DISCUSS THE
HUMANITARIAN SITUATION IN
UKRAINE.
NATO SECRETARY GENERAL ANDERS
FOGH RASMUSSEN ISSUED A NEW
WARNING TODAY, AS HE MET WITH
UKRAINIAN LEADERS IN KIEV.
>> I CALL ON RUSSIA TO STEP BACK
FROM THE BRINK, STEP BACK FROM
THE BORDER.
DO NOT USE PEACEKEEPING AS AN
EXCUSE FOR WAR-MAKING.
>> Reporter: POLAND'S PRIME
MINISTER ISSUED A SIMILAR
WARNING YESTERDAY, SAYING THE
THREAT OF DIRECT RUSSIAN
INTERVENTION IS CERTAINLY
GREATER THAN IT WAS A FEW DAYS
AGO.
MEANWHILE, INSIDE UKRAINE,
GOVERNMENT FORCES HAVE STEPPED
UP PRESSURE ON THE REBELS, WITH
INTENSIVE NEW SHELLING IN THEIR
STRONGHOLD CITY OF DONETSK.
AMID THE FIGHTING, A EASTERN
UKRAINIAN NATIVE REPLACED THE
RUSSIAN NATIONAL, ALEKSANDER
BORODAI, AS LEADER OF THE
SEPARATISTS THERE.
>> Ifill: AND MARGARET JOINS ME
NOW.
WHAT WAS THE OFFICIAL RESPONSE
OF THE ADMINISTRATION TO THIS
NEW
>>NTERTING, THEY DIDN'T
SEEM TERRIBLY PHASED BY THIS.
THEY EXPECTED SOME RETALIATORY
ACTION.
THE U.S. ON AN ECONOMIC LEVEL,
THEY DID NOT CONSIDER THIS
PARTICULARLY DAMAGING TO U.S.
COMPANIES.
THEY DO TAKE IT AS A SIGN THAT
PUTIN IS NOT BACKING DOWN,
HOWEVER, POLITICALLY, BUT MOSTLY
OFFICIALS I TALKED TO SAID THEY
THOUGHT IT WAS REALLY MISGUIDED
AND SELF-DEFEATED AND THEY MAY
BE WHISTLING AT THE GRAVEYARD AS
WE SAY, BUT ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT RUSSIAN CITIZENS GOT AT THE
END OF THE COLD WAR AND THE
COLLAPSE OF THE SOVIET UNION WAS
THE FREEDOM AND THE TRAVEL AND
HAVING WESTERN DOMESTIC GOODS
AND HE COULD HAVE CRANKY
CONSTITUENCY.
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH DO OUR
GOODS THERE CONSTITUTE OUR
TRADE?
>> NOT MUCH.
LOOKING THE FIGURE UP -- FIRST
OF ALL, U.S.-RUSSIA TRADE LAST
YEAR WAS ONLY, LIKE, $38 BILLION
TOTAL, ONLY $11 BILLION OF
EXPERTS WHICH ONLY $1.2 BILLION
OF THAT IS F
THE BIGGEST ITEM IS POULTRY AND
THEY'RE CALLED BUSH LEGS NAMED
FOR GEORGE H.W. BUSH WHO
NEGOTIATED A DEAL WITH GORBACHEV
IN THE '90sETO IN THE FORM OF
AID TO GIVE THEM THE CHICKEN
LEGS WHICH APPARENTLY AMERICAN
CONSUMERS DON'T LIKE AS WELL AS
THEY LIKE CHICKEN BREASTS NOW
AND IT'S GROWN INTO THIS
MULTI-MILLION-DOLLAR BUSINESS,
BUT ACTUALLY READING FROM THE
QUOTE FROM THE GEORGIA POULTRY
EXPORT ASSOCIATION, THEY SAID,
WELL, WE GOT SO TIRED OF THE
RUSSIANS JERKING US AROUND, IT
USED TO BE 40% OF OUR POULTRY
EXPORTS WENT TO RUSSIA, NOW IT'S
ONLY 7% LAST YEAR.
HIS POINT WAS U.S. EXPORTERS
HAVE DIVERSIFIED SO IT'S NOT A
HUGE HIT.
>> Ifill: ALL ALONG IN THE
SANCTION DEBATE THERE HAS BEEN
QUESTION ABOUT THE DIFFERENCE IN
THE U.S. AND EUROPE.
EUROPE WATCHED THIS TODAY AND
DID THEY THINK, OH, NO, WE'RE
NEXT?
>> THEY PUT OUT A STATEMENT THAT
IT WAS $15 BILLION OF EXPORTS
LAST YEAR INTO RUSSIA.
I TALKED TO A SENIOR OFFICIAL
WHO SAID, HOWEVER, EVEN IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF YEARS, THE
PERCENTAGE OF OUR TRADE WITH
RUSSIA HAS BEEN GOING DOWN IN
PART BECAUSE RUSSIA
HAS BEEN HURTING.
SO GERMAN EXPORTS WERE DOWN 5%,
AND THEN 10%, AND THEY ARE
MOSTLY THINGS LIKE AUTOS THAT
AREN'T AFFECTED BY THIS.
BUT OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES WHO
ARE HEAVILY DEPENDENT ON
AGRICULTURE EXPORTS, IT WILL
HURT.
>> Ifill: SOMINE COUNTRIES
WERE SLOW TO GET ON THE
SANCTIONS BANDWAGON.
BUZZ THIS SHAKE THEM AT ALL?
>> THAT'S WHY I TALKED
PARTICULARLY TO THE GERMANS
BECAUSE MERKEL WAS SEEMINGLY
RELUCTANT AND WAS THE ONE WHO
FINALLY BROUGHT PEOPLE ALONG.
THE DOWNING OF THE AIRLINER, I
THINK I SAID THE LAST TIME WE
DISCUSSED THIS, WAS REALLY A
GAME CHANGER IN THE MINDS OF THE
EUROPEANS, THE DOWNING OF THE
AIRLINER AND THE WAY THE BODIES
WERE TREATED.
U.S. OFFICIALS SAID THE SAME
THING THAT THEY HAVE GOTTEN NO
INDICATION OF WEAKENING E.U.
RESOLVE.
>> Ifill: WE SAW TODAY THAT
THEY DECIDED TO EXTEND EDWARD
SNOWDEN'S STAY FOR THREE YEARS
AND DIGS ALONG THE WAY.
IS THIS ANOTHER ONE?
>> THE SANCTIONS, BANS AND
SNOWDEN.
I ASKED A U.S. OFFICIAL IF THE
SNOWDEN MATTER WAS RELATED.
RUSSIA SIGNED A MEMORANDUM W
IRAN TO BUY CRUDE, WHICH IS
ANOTHER TWEAK.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND PRESIDENT
PUTIN TALKED BY PHONE LAST
FRIDAY AND AGREED SANCTIONS WERE
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE AND NEEDDD
POLITICAL SOLUTION BUT THERE IS
NO SIGN OF BACKCHANNEL
NEGOTIATIONS ON EITHER SIDE, I'M
TOLD.
>> Ifill: WE'RE ALSO WATCHING
RUSSIAN TROOPS ALONG THE BORDER
OF UKRAINE.
THEY'RE STILL THERE,ON'T SEEM
LIKE THEY'RE GOING ANYWHERE.
IS IT MORE TENSE?
>> IT IS, EVEN MORE SO ALONG THE
BORDER.
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS WHO I TALKED
TO TODAY WHO ALWAYS BELIEVED
PUTIN MAY WELL INVADE SAID,
LOOK, EVEN THE TROOP LEVELS
DON'T MATTER AS THEY BUILT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE, SO THEY HAVE
MILITARY HOSPITALS, THE DEPOTS
AND THE WEAPONS, HE SAID THEY
COULD  IN 10,000, 20,000
MORE TROOPS VIRTUALLY OVERNIGHT,
CERTAINLY WITHIN A MATTER OF
DAYS.
THIS OFFICIAL ALSO WAS VERY
COAINIAN FORCES
ARE NOT MAKING THE GAINS WE'RE
ALL READING THEY ARE.
HE SAID, A WEEK AGO WE WERE
STILL PICKING ONE, TWO, OR THREE
TOWNS A DAY.
BY NOW THERE'S A STALEMATE AND
THE SEPARATISTS ARE KIND OF
LOCALIZED IN COUNTRIES AND
LUHANSK.
THE QUESTION IS HOW DOES UKRAINE
ACTUALLY TAKE THE CITIES AND ARE
AFRAID THEY WILL SET UP AN
ISRAEL-GAZA SCENARIO AS ONE
DESCRIBED TO ME WHERE IT LOOKS
LIKE UKRAINIANS ARE KILLING
CIIANS.
>> Ifill: WHAT ABOUT
SETTLEMENT?
>> IT'S LOOKING WEAK.
UU.S. OFFICIALS SAY IN PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE THEY GET THE SAME KIND
OF REACTION FROM THE RUSSIAN, HE
SAID IT'S LIKE COLD WAR DAYS.
AND UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS SAY
THERE ARE SPLITS IN THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT WHICH ARE
ALSO GETTING IN THE WAY OF THIS.
>> Ifill: MARGARET WARNER,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A LOOK AT HOW
WE PUNISH PEOPLE IN THE UNITED
STATES, AND HOW THAT MIGHT BE
CHANGING.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT STORY.
>> Reporter: ACROSS THE U.S., AS
INMATE POPULATIONS KEEP GROWING.
CALLS TO ADDRESS PRISON
CROWDING, CONDITIONS AND OTHER
PROBLEMS CONTINUE TO BE HEARD.TE
DEPARTMENT ISSUED A SCATHING
REPORT ON ABUSE OF TEENAGE
INMATES AT NEW YORK'S RIKER'S
ISLAND.
IT SPOKE OF "A CULTURE OF
VIOLENCE" THAT ENCOURAGED
BEATINGS AND EXCESSIVE USE OF
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT.
IN CALIFORNIA, STATE OFFICIALS
ARE UNDER FEDERAL COURT ORDERS
AIMED AT REDUCING SEVERE
OVERCROWDING OF PRISONS.
AND U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER IS PUSHING TO SHORTEN
PRISON TERMS FOR MANY NON-
VIOLENT OFFENDERS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR RECENTLY, HE
CITED A FUNDAMENTAL UNFAIRNESS
IN DRUG SENTENCING.
>> IF YOU ARE BASING A SENTENCE
ON SOMETHING OTHER THAN THE
CONDUCT OF THE PERSON WHO WAS
INVOLVED, AND THE PERSON'S
RECORD, IF YOU'RE LOOKING, FOR
INSTANCE, AT FACTORS OF WHAT
EDUCATIONAL LEVEL THE PERSON HAS
RECEIVED, WHAT NEIGHBORHOOD THE
PERSON COMES FROM...
>> Ifill: TO BE CLEAR, SOME
STATES ARE DOING THAT ALREADY.
>> ...THEY ARE, RIGHT.
AND USING THAT AS A PREDICTOR,
THOUGH, OF HOW LIKELY THIS
PERSON, THIS INDIVIDUAL, IS
GOING TO BE A RECIDIVIST.
I'M NOT AT ALL CERTAIN I'M
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
>> Reporter: THE CONCERNS HAVE
SPARKED BI-PARTISAN EFFORTS.
IN THE SENATE, REPUBLICAN RAND
PAUL OF KENTUCKY AND DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR COREY BOOKER OF NEW
JERSEY ARE FOCUSED ON SEVERAL
ISSUES, INCLUDING DRUGS AND
RACIAL DISPARITIES IN PRISON.
>> THERE ARE STILL SOME
NAYSAYERS, BUT I THINK THE
PUBLIC AT LARGE IS SAYING, WELL,
YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT SO SURE
DRUGS ARE RIGHT FOR PEOPLE, BUT
WE ARE THINKING THAT MAYBE WE
SHOULD REHABILITATE PEOPLE, THAT
PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY KIDS,
DESERVE A SECOND CHANCE.
WHEN THEY MAKE MISTAKES, LET'S
GET THEM BACK INTO SOCIETY AND
WORKING, WHICH MAKES THEM LESS
LIKELY TO GO BACK INTO DRUGS.
>> Reporter: STILL IT'S UNCLEAR
IF OR WHEN CONGRESS MIGHT TAKE
ACTION.
SO IS THE GROUND SHIFTING ON
CRIMINAL JUSTICE ISSUES?
WE LOOK ACROSS THE SPECTRUM AT
PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS WITH:
BRYAN STEVENSON, A LONGTIME
PUBLIC INTEREST LAWYER, AND
FOUNDER THE EQUAL JUSTICE
INITIATIVE, AN ALABAMA-BASED
NON-PROFIT FOCUSED ON SOCIAL
JUSTICE AND HUMAN RIGHTS.
PAT NOLAN IS THE FORMER
REPUBLICAN LEADER OF THE
CALIFORNIA STATE ASSEMBLY.
HE'S NOW THE DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER FOR CRIMINAL JUSTICE
REFORM AT THE AMERICAN
CONSERVATIVE UNION FOUNDATION.
AND BILL MCCOLLUM IS THE FO
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF FLORIDA, NOW
A LAWYER IN PRIVATE PRACTICE.
BRYAN STEVENSON, AS SOMEONE
WORKING WITH INMATES AND LOOKING
AT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM,
HOW WOULD YOU DEFINE THE PROBLEM
THAT MOST NEEDS ADDRESSING?
WELL, I THINK IT'S
OVERINCARCERATION.
WE HAVE THE HIGHEST RATE OF
INCARCERATION IN THE WORLD.
PRISON POPULATION HAS GROWN FROM
300,000 IN THE '70s TO
2.4 MILLION TODAY AND WE HAVE
BEEN LOCKED INTO WHAT I CALL THE
POLITICS OF FEAR AND ANGER AND
NOT MADE GOOD DECISIONS ABOUT
CRIMINAL JUSTICE, SENTENCING,
PRISONS, AND I THINK GETTING OUT
OF THAT IS THE REAL CHALLENGE.
>> Brown: PAT NOLAN, YOU'RE
COMING FROM A CONSERVATIVE
PERSPECTIVE.
HOW DO YOU IDENTIFY THE PROBLEM?
I THINK WE'VE OVER-INCARCERATED.
WE HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE VERY
DANGEROUS AND NEED TO BE
SEPARATED FROM THE POPULATION,
BUT YOU CAN OVERUSE A THING AND
I THINK WE'VE INCARCERATED
PEOPLE WE'RE NOT AFRAID OF, JUST
MAD AT.
>> Brown: YOU MEAN THE WRONG
PEOPLE ARE IN JAIL?
>> THEY NEED SANCTION BUS THEY
DON'T NEED TO BE LOCKED UP, THEY
DON'T POSE A PHYSICAL THREAT TO
THE PUBLIC.
>> Brown: BILL McCOLLUM,
WHAT DOESN'T WORK AND WHAT DO
YOU WANT TO KEEP?
>> THERE ARE PROBLEMS WITH
OVERCROWDING AND PROBLEMS WITH
SENTENCES THAT ARE TOO
MANDATORY.
BUT THE BIGGEST PROBLEM IS THE
RECIDIVISM RATE.
WE RETURN AO LOLKS TO PRISON AG.
THEY'RE CONFLICTED AS A FELONY,
AND THEN WHEN THEY GO BACK OUT
ON THE STREETS, WE DON'T PROVIDE
THEM WITH A JOB THEY CAN KEEP.
SO WE NEED TO ADDRESS ALL THE
PROBLEMS, NOT JUST OVERCROWDING
OR SENTENCING, IT'S A WHOLE
COMBINATION IN THE PRISON
SYSTEM.
>> Brown: TRY TO MAKE IT MORE
N START WITH YOU BRYAN
STEVENSON.
GIVE US AN EXAMPLE OF A REFORM
OR SOMETHING HAPPENING AROUND
THE COUNTRY THA THAT YOU WOULD E
TO SEE TO ADDRESS SOME OF THE
PROBLEMS YOU SEE.
>> TO PICK UP ON WHAT MR. BILL
McCOLLUM SAID, I AGREE WITH
THAT.
MOST PEOPLE SENT TO PRISON ARE
FROM LOW-LEVEL, NONVIOLENT
OFFENSES AND THEN MOST WE SENT
BACK BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE
SERVICES.
WE WANT TO ELIMINATE SENDING
PEOPLE BACK TO PRISON FOR
TECHNICAL VIOLATIONS OF
PROBATION OR PAROLE AND THAT'S
THE KIND OF REFORM THAT HAS
REALLY REDUCED OVERCROWDING IN
SOME PLACES.
I THINK ENDING SOME OF THESE
MANDATORY SENTENCES FOR DRUG
CRIMES AND LOW-LEVEL NON-VIOLENT
CRIMES CAN HAVE A HUGE IMPACT.
IN SHIFTING THE FUNDING, WE WENT
FROM $6 BILLION IN PRISON
SPENDING IN EIGHT 1980 TO $80 BN
A TODAY AND IF WE SPEND MORE OF
THAT MONEY ON SUPPORT AND
REHABILITATION, WE CAN KEEP
PEOPLE OUT OF PRISON FOR A LONG
TIME.
>> Brown: WANT TO PICK UP ON
THAT?
>> I AGREE WITH BRYAN STEVENSON
AND BILL McCOLLUM.
THERE ARE 29 MILLION PEOPLE IN
PRISON FOR DRUGS.
IF PEOPLE AREN'T PREPARED TO BE
PRODUCTIVE WHEN THEY GET OUT, TO
HOLD A JOB AND SUPPORT
THEMSELVES AND THEIR FAMILY,
WE'RE RISKING MORE PROBLEMS.
THE HOPE PROGRAM HAWAII STARTED,
THE FOLKS THAT RIGHT BEFORE THE
JUDGE STARTED AS A FEDERAL
PROSECUTOR, HE SAID WE TAKE
RULES SERIOUSLY AND WHEN YOU
BREAK THEM, WE'LL HOLD YOU
ACCOUNTABLE.
WE'LL NOT SEND YOU TO WRITTEN
SIX YEAR
48 HOURS, YOU CAN THINK OVER
WHAT YOU'VE DONE AND COME BACK
AND YOU HAVE A CHANCE TO GET
BACK IN DRUG TREATMENT, STAY
CLEAN.
IT RESULTED IN 50% LOWER CRIME
RATE AMONG THOSE GOING THROUGH
HIS COURT, 68% FEWER MISSED
APPOINTMENTS WITH THE PROBATION
OFFICER AND I THINK 66% FEWER
DIRTY DRUG TESTS.
SO IT'S SAVING MONEY, THEY
AREN'T HAVING TO TAKE UP BEDS IN
PRISON BUT IT'S HOLDING THEM
ACCOUNTABLE.
WE NEED TO FOLLOW THESE GUYS AND
MAKE SURE THEY'RE STAYING ON THE
STRAIGHT AND NARROW AND NOT
DOING SOMETHING BAD AGAIN.
>> Brown: BILL McCOLLUM, DO
YOU HAVE AN EXAMPLE YOU WANT TO
GIVE US THAT ADDRESSES THE
PROBLEM YOU MENTIONED?
>> I SERVED O AS THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL ON THE CLEMENCY BOARD IN
FLORIDA AND I SAW OUR CASES COME
UP REGULARLY AND DESPITE THE
FACT I AGREE IF YOU HAVE A
SIMPLE POSSESSION YOU SHOULDN'T
BE INCARCERATED FOR AN EXTENDED
PERIOD OF TIME.
MOST CASES WERE NOT SIMPLE
POSSESSION OF DRUGS, THEY WERE
OTHER CRIMES, NOT ALWAYS
VIOLENT.
BUT IF YOU HAVE A LARGE ENOUGH
QUANTITY AND DEALING IN DRUGS
YOU CAUGHT TO HAVE A MANDATORY
MINIMUM SENTENCE IN MY OPINION.
MAYBE THESE SENTENCES SOMETIMES
ARE TOO LONG BUT WE NEED TO DEAL
AND I THINK IT'S IS A SERIOUS
PROBLEM WHERE THE CRIMINALS ARE
GOING TO BE THERE EVEN AFTER WE
ADDRESS THE OVERCROWDING FOR THE
MINOR POSSESSION ISSUE AND
CHANGE SOME OF THE LAWS MAYBE ON
DIVERTING A FEW PEOPLE BUT
CAUSE, THE MAJORITY I THINK OF
THE STATES ARE NOT THERE FOR THE
CRIMES THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT,
THEY'RE FOR MORE SERIOUS MATTERS
AND WE NEED TO ADDRESS THE REHAB
AND WHAT WE DO TWHEEZ PRISONERS,
THESE RETURN PRISONERS, REPEAT
OFFENDERS.
>> Brown: JUST LISTENING,
MR. McCOLUMN, ARE YOU WORRIED
THE IDEA OF REFORM CAN DO TOO
FAR?
>> YES, I AM.
I'M WORRIED WHEN I WAS ON THE
COMMITTEE IN CONGRESS AND
CHAIRED IT FOR A WHILE I KNOW
JUDGES OPPOSE ANY IDEA OF
SENTENCING GUIDELINES THAT KEPT
THEIR HANDS TIED ESPECIALLY
MINIMUM MANDATORY SENTENCES AND
WE HAVE GONE TOO FAR WITH
MINIMUM MANDATORIES BUT THERE'S
A PLACE FOR THAT, THERE'S A
PLACE FOR JEB BUSH'S 10,   20,
LIFE WHEN YOU HAVE REPEAT
OFFENDERS AND THEY COMMIT
CERTAIN TYPES OF FENNELIES AGAIN
AND AGAIN.
SO I'M WORRIED THE MOVE THE TO
RELEASE PRISONERS AND REDUCE
SENTENCES TO MINIMUM MANDATORIES
WILL TAKE IT OPPOSITE DIRECTION
AND GO TOO FAR.
>> Brown: BRYAN STEVENSON,
RESPONSE?
>> I'M NOT SO WORRIED ABOUT
THAT.
WE HAD 300,000 PEOPLE IN PRISON
IN THE EARLY 1970s.
THE VIOLENT CRIME IN MOST PLACES
IS ABOUT WHERE I HAVE TO IN THE
'60s WHEN WE HAD A
DRAMATICALLY SMALLER PRISON
POPULATION.
I AGREE WE HAVE TO FOCUS ON
PEOPLE WHO ARE THREATS TO PUBLIC
SAFETY, WE HAVE TO GET THEM OUT
OF SOCIETY AND PROTECT THE PUB
PUBLIC, BUT WE HAVE TENS OF
THOUSANDS WHO ARE NOT IN THAT
CATEGORY.
IF WE TREAT DRUG DEPENDENCY AS A
HEALTH PROBLEM, I THINK WE CAN
PROVIDE BETTER SERVICES, KEEP
PEOPLE OUT OF JAILS OR PRISONS
AND NOT IN ANY WAY UNDERMINE
PUBLIC SAFETY.
WE'VE GOT A LOT OF SPACE TO
OPERATE, UNFORTUNATELY, TO
REDUCE OUR PRISON POPULATION
WITHOUT INCREAS INCREASING THREO
PUBLIC SAFETY.
>> WHERE IS THIS AS A POLITICAL
MATTER?
THE QUESTION I ASKED AT THE TOP,
HAS THE GROUND SHIFTED?
>> YEAH, IT'S BEEN VERY
INTERESTING.
IN THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS, MANY
CONSERVATIVE LEADERS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY ARE WORKING TO IMPLEMENT
POLICIES TO GET THE MOST PUBLIC
SAFETY PER DOLLAR.
WE HAVE BEEN STINGY WITH OTHER
PARTS OF GOVERNMENT AND HAVE
QUITE FRANKLY TURNED A BLIND EYE
TO CORRECTIONS AND INSTEAD
SAYING ARE WE GETTING ENOUGH
PUBLIC SAFETY?
SO TEXAS LED THE WAY BY CHANGING
THE LAWS SO THEY DIDN'T
INCARCERATE THOSE AT THE LOW
LEVEL OF THE SPECTRUM, THEY
LOWERED THE AMOUNT SPENT BUT
JUST DIDN'T PUT IT BACK IN THE
BUDGET, THEY PUT IT IN THE
PROGRAM LIKE BILL McCOLLUM
TALKED ABOUT, JOB TRAINING, DRUG
TREATMENT, MENTAL HEALTH CARE.
SITH SAVED THE MONEY AND THE
LIVES OF THE LOW-LEVEL OFFENDERS
AND PUT IT INTO THINGS OR INTO
REHABILITATION.
THE KEY THING IS THEY'VE SAVED
OVER $3 BILLION AND THE CRIME
RATE IS THE LOWEST IT'S BEEN
SINCE 1968.
>> Brown: AND BILL McCOLLUM,
JUST IN OUR LAST MINUTE HERE, DO
YOU SEE THE POLITICAL GROUND
SHIFTING AND WHERE IS THE PUBLIC
IN ALL OF THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK THE PUBLIC SEES
THE CRIME RATE DOWN NOW AND IT'S
SWINGING MORE TOWARDS LOOSENESS
AND LETTING MORE PEOPLE OUT AND
DOING MORE DIVERSION AND DRUG
TREATMENT.
THAT'S NOT ALL BAD.
I'M WORRIED THEY NOT GO TOO FAR.
PUNISHMENT IS PART OF THE SYSTEM
WE HAVE OF DETERRENCE.
THAT'S HOW YOU DETER CRIME.
SO EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE A
VIOLENT CRIME, THERE ARE CRIMES
OUT THERE THAT NEED TO GET
CERTAINTY IN THE PUNISHMENT AND
WE NEED TO HAVE THEM IN PRISON.
I JUST THINK WE HAVE TO BE
CAREFUL WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THEM
NOT TO PUT TOO MANY IN THAT
CATEGORY.
SMALL DRUG OFFENDERS,
POSSESSION, YES, THAT COULD BE
DIVERTED, MAJOR CRIMES IN THEFT
AND CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR AND OTHER
CASES MAJOR DRUG TRAFFICKERS,
NO.
>> Brown: BIG SUBJECT TO BE
CONTINUED.
BRYAN STEVENSON, PAT NOLAN, BILL
McCOLLUM, THANK YOU ALL VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW MARKS THE
40TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE END OF
RICHARD NIXON'S PRESIDENCY, AN
OCCASION TO LOOK BACK AT A MAN,
AND A MOMENT, THAT CHANGED THE
COUNTRY.
>> THEREFORE, I SHALL RESIGN THE
PRESIDENCY EFFECTIVE AT NOON
TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: ON THE EVENING OF
AUGUST 8TH 1974 FROM THE OVAL
OFFICE PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON
ANNOUNCED HIS RESIGNATION.
THIS AFTER A TWO-YEAR-LONG SAGA
THAT BECAME KNOWN AS THE
WATERGATE SCANDAL.
ON JUNE 17th 1972, FIVE MEN WHO
HAD BEEN HIRED BY THE COMMITTEE
TO RE-ELECT THE PRESIDENT WERE
ARRESTED TRYING TO BUG THE
OFFICES OF THE DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL COMMITTEE IN THE
WATERGATE COMPLEX.
IT WAS ONE PART OF A LARGE
CLANDESTINE EFFORT TO ENSURE
NIXON'S RE-ELECTION.
THALL
BEATING SENATOR GEORGE MCGOVERN
BY NEARLY 18 MILLION VOTES.
BUT INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE
WATERGATE BREAK-IN CONTINUED
EVENTUALLY TYING THE WHITE HOUSE
TO THE BURGLARY.
IN FEBRUARY 1973, A SENATE
COMMITTEE BEGAN TO LOOK INTO THE
PRESIDENT'S CONNECTION TO THE
WATERGATE BREAK-IN AND THE
SUBSEQUENT COVER-UP.
THAT MAY, THE SPECIAL PANELGAN E
MONTHS.
SOME MEMBERS OF PRESIDENT
NIXON'S OWN ADMINISTRATION
TESTIFIED AGAINST HIM, INCLUDING
FORMER WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL JOHN
DEAN WHO SAID THERE HAD BEEN A
COVERUP, ONE HE HAD DISCUSSED
WITH THE PRESIDENT.
>> I BEGAN BY TELLING THE
PRESIDENT THAT THERE WAS A
CANCER GROWING ON THE PRESIDENCY
AND IF THE CANCER WAS NOT
REMOVED, THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF
WOULD BE KILLED BY IT.
>> Woodruff: AND FORMER WHITE
HOUSE AIDE, ALEXANDER
BUTTERFIELD, CONFIRMED THE
EXISTENCE OF AUDIO TAPES ON
WHICH THE PRESIDENT HAD RECORDED
IN THE OVAL OFFICE AND
SINCE 1971.
>> WERE YOU AWARE OF ANY DEVICES
INSTALLED IN THE EXECUTIVE
OFFICE BUILDING OFFICE OF THE
PRESIDENT?"
>> YES SIR.
>> Woodruff: AFTER THE HEARINGS,
DEMOCRATS, COMMENTATORS AND EVEN
MEMBERS OF HIS OWN PARTY CALLED
FOR THE PRESIDENT TO RESIGN.
BUT HE RESISTED, WITH COMMENTS
LIKE THIS AT A NEWS CONFERENCE
IN MARCH OF '74.
>> IT PERHAPS WOULD BE AN ACT OF
COURAGE TO RESIGN.
I SHOULD ALSO POINT OUT,
HOWEVER, THAT WHILE IT MIGHT BE
AN ACT OF COURAGE TO RUN AWAY
FROM A JOB THAT YOU WERE ELECTED
TO DO, IT ALSO TAKES COURAGE TO
STAND AND FIGHT FOR WHAT YOU
BELIEVE IS RIGHT, AND THAT IS
WHAT I INTEND TO DO.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
REFUSED TO TURN OVER THE OVAL
OFFICE TAPES, UNTIL ON JULY
24th, THE SUPREME COURT ORDERED
THEIR RELEASE.
THREE DAYS LATER, THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE VOTED ALONG
BIPARTISAN LINES TO APPROVE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT,
CHARGING THE PRESIDENT WITH
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE AND ABUSE
OF POWER.
HE CONTINUED TO PROCLAIM HIS
INNOCENCE, UNTIL A GROUP OF
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS
TOLD HIM HE COULD NOT SURVIVE
VOTES IN EITHER HOUSE, AT WHICH
TIME, HE FINALLY DECIDED TO STEP
DOWN:
>> SOMETIMES I HAVE SUCCEEDED
AND SOMETIMES I HAVE FAILED.
>> Woodruff: THE NEXT DAY-
RICHARD NIXON DEPARTED THE WHITE
HOUSE, BECOMING THE ONLY
AMERICAN PRESIDENT TO RESIGN THE
OFFICE.
AND WE TAKE THIS MOMENT TO LOOK
BACK AT SOMEONE WHO HAD A
PROFOUND EFFECT ON OUR NATION.
JOINING US FOR THAT IS:
BEVERLY GAGE, PROFESSOR OF 20TH
CENTURY AMERICAN HISTORY AT YALE
UNIVERSITY.
PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN TIMOTHY
NAFTALI, FORMER DIRECTOR OF THE
RICHARD NIXON PRESIDENTIAL
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM.
NOW HEAD OF THE TAMINENT LIBRARY
AND ROBERT F. WAGNER ARCHIVES AT
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY.
PAT BUCHANAN, WHO SERVED AS A
SENIOR ADVISOR IN THE NIXON
WHITE HOUSE, AND AUTHOR OF THE
BOOK "THE GREATEST COMEBACK: HOW
RICHARD NIXON ROSE FROM DEFEAT
TO CREATE THE NEW MAJORITY."
AND LUKE NICHTER, CO-AUTHOR,
WITH DOUGLAS BRINKLEY, OF THE
"THE NIXON TAPES," A COMPILATION
OF KEY CONVERSATIONS RECORDED BY
THE PRESIDENT'S SECRET WHITE
HOUSE TAPING SYSTEM.
AND WE WELCOME YOU ALL TO THE
"NewsHour".
PAT BUCHANAN AS SOMEONE WHO KNEW
RICHARD NIXON VERY WELL, WHY DO
YOU THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
LOOK BACK AT HIM AND HIS
PRESIDENCY?
>> WELL, CERTAINLY, WHEN YOU
MENTION THE WATERGATE SCANDAL,
IT WAS THE BIGGEST SCANDAL IN
THE AMERICAN POLITICAL HISTORY
THAT BROUGHT DOWN HIS
PRESIDENCY.
BILL CLINTON WAS IMPEACHED BUT
HE SURVIVED THAT.
NIXON'S PRESIDENCY IS
EXTRAORDINARY BECAUSE WHEN YOU
LOOK AT HIS FIRST TERM AND
SECOND TERM, I THINK YOU WOULD
FIND HIM MOST CONSEQUENTIAL OF
PRESIDENTS.
ARMS CONTROL OF THE SOVIET
UNION, ENDED THE DRAFT,
DESEGREGATED THE SOUTH, HAD
ENACTED 18-YEAR-OLD VOTE,
E.P.A., OSHA, THE CANCER
INSTITUTE.
SO HE WAS AN ENORMOUSLY
CONSEQUENTIAL PRESIDENT AND IT'S
MY AND OTHERS' VIEW THAT HE
STOOD DOWN AND I THINK IN HIS
SECOND TERM HE WOULD HAVE BEEN A
NEAR GREATEST  +*79 BUT I THINK
HIS SECOND TERM WAS A FAILURE.
>> PAT BUCHANAN RAISES THE
POINT.
WE'RE STILL TRYING TO DIGEST
THIS 40 YEARS LATER.
>> TEN YEARS AGO, I STARTED
WORKING ON THE TAPES AND I KNOW
IT NOW THAT WHEN YOU ADD ALL THE
WATERGATE AND ABUSE OF
GOVERNMENT POWER WE CALL IT
MATERIAL ON TAPES, IT'S ONLY
ABOUT 5 TO 7% OF THE TOTAL
TAPES, YET THESE 5 TO 7% HAVE
CREATED ALMOST 100% OF OUR
IMPRESSION OF THE MAN AND HIS
PRESIDENCY.
>> Woodruff: BUT WHEN YOU LOOK
AT THIS, THERE'S STILL A
FASCINATION WITH RICHARD NIXON.
WHY IS THAT?
>> WE STILL HAVE 700 TO 800
HOURS OF TAPES THAT HAVE NOT
BEEN RELEASED SO WE'RE ALREADY
DROWNING IN TAPES AND WE STILL
HAVE A LOT MORE TO LEARN.
I TEACH 18 TO 20-YEAR-OLDS WHO,
FOR THEM, RICHARD NIXON IS AN
ANCIENT AS THE AMERICAN CIVIL
WAR.
THEY DON'T EVEN HAVE A GREAT
LIVING MEMORY OF 9/11.
THEY WANT TO LEARN SOMETHING
OTHER THAN WATERGATE.
>> Woodruff: BEVERLY GAGE, YOU
TALKED TO US ABOUT HE WAS A PART
OF A SERIES OF THINGS THAT
HAPPENED IN THIS COUNTRY IN THE
LATE '60s AND '70s.
EXPAND ON THAT.
>> YOU HAVE TO SEE WATERGATE AS
A SERIES OF CRISES IN THE
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT AND
WATERGATE IS ONE OF THE MOST
DRAMATIC OF THEM BUT IT COMES IN
THE CONTEXT OF A HUGE STRUGGLE
IN VIETNAM, OVER SEEK RIOVER
VIETNAM, OVER THE WAYS THE
INTELLIGENCE ESTABLISHMENT HAD
BEEN TREATING ANTI-WAR
PROTESTERS AT HOME, IT COMES IN
THE MIDST OF REAL TURMOIL,
CERTAINLY OF CIVIL RIGHTS IN THE
UNITED STATES, A BREAKDOWN IN
SOME WAYS OF DEMOCRACY AT THE
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION
AND, SO, WATERGATE BECAME OF
SORT OF A PLACE WHERE ALL OF
THESE CONTESTS CAME TOGE IRE IN
WATERGATE.
IN ADDITION TO PLAYING OUT, TO
PRODUCE RICHARD NIXON HIMSELF.
>> Woodruff: TIMOTHY NAFTALI,
IS THAT ONE REASON WE REMAIN SO
FASCINATED BY HIM?
>> WE REMAIN FASCINATE BY HIM
BECAUSE ON THE ONE HAND HE WAS
BRILLIANT.
HE WAS ALSO A POLITICAL ICON IN
THIS COUNTRY FOR 50 YEARS AND,
AT THE SAME TIME, HE REMAINS THE
ONLY PRESIDENT TO RESIGN.
THOSE TWO YEARS FROM THE MOMENT
THAT THE BREAK-IN OCCURRED AT
THE WATERGATE UNTIL THE TIME HE
RESIGNED, RICHARD NIXON FOUGHT
WITH THE TRUTH AND, ULTIMATELY,
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND ALL
THREE BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT
LEARNED HE HAD BEEN LYING ALL
ALONG.
BY OVERSTEPPING HIS BOUNDS,
RICHARD NIXON TESTED OUR
CONSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE.
WHAT HAPPENED 40 YEARS AGO THIS
WEEK WAS THAT THE U.S.
CONSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE SHOWED
THAT IT COULD LAST AND WAS
FLEXIBLE ENOUGH TO DEAL WITH THE
PRESIDENT WHO HAD EXCEEDED HIS
CONSTITUTIONAL BOUNDS.
AS BEVERLY INTIMATED, THIS
REALLY WAS THE HIGH POINT OF THE
IMPERIAL PRESIDENCY.
FROM THIS POINT ON, CONGRESS AND
THE SUPREME COURT WOULD BE
TAKING MEASURERS, PUTTING THEM
IN PLACE TO REDUCE TO SOME
EXTENT EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.
RICHARD NIXON IS SHAKESPEAREAN
BECAUSE HE WAS SO FULL OF POWER,
SO FULL OF DARKNESS, SO FULL OF
AMBITION THAT HE TESTED OUR
CONSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE AND
RESHAPED IT IN A WAY THAT I'M
SURE HE REGRETTED, BUT IN A WAY
THAT'S BEEN HELPFUL TO ALL
AMERICANS.
>> Woodruff: SHAKESPEAREAN,
PAT BUCHANAN?
>> THEY'RE TAKING WIRETAPS AND
THINGS AND ALL THAT WAS CORD UP.
THE QUESTION IS EXCELLENT.
WHY IS THERE SUCH A FASCINATION?
RICHARD NIXON WAS A NATIONAL
FIGURE IN 1947.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT GRADE I WAS
IN.
HE WAS IN THE WHOLE McCARTHY
TRUMAN ERA.
HE LOSES TO J.F.K., LOSES IN
CALIFORNIA, SAYS GOODBYE I'M OUT
OF POLITICS, MANAGES THE
GREATEST COMEBACK IN AMERICAN
POLITICAL HISTORY.
BECAUSE OF THE FRANKLY
INDECISIVENESS IN WATERGATE NOT
TO STEP UP AND SAY OUR GUYS DID
IT, I DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT IT.
THE PRIME MINISTER SAID HE'S GOT
TO BE A GOOD BUTCHER AND HE WAS
NOT A GOOD BUTCHER.
>> Woodruff: PAT, YOU'VE
REDUCED WATERGATE JUST TO A
BREAK-IN AND THE COVERUP TO THE
BREAK-IN.
WATERGATE TURNED OUT TO BE
ABUSED OF POWER WELL DOCUMENTED
BY THE CASE.
ONLY 202 HOURS BUT THOSE ARE
STARTLING AND DRAMATIC AND VERY
TROUBLING 202 HOURS.
THE PRESIDENT APPLIED TO THE
DOMESTIC REALM THE KINDS OF
ACTIVITIES THAT WE ASSOCIATE
WITH FOREIGN COVERT ACTION.
HE TINTED MIND DOING WHATEVER --
HE DIDN'T MIND DOING WHATEVER
WAS NECESSARY TO HURT HIS
POLITICAL ENEMY.
>> "WASHINGTON POST" HERO, MARK
FELT IN CHARGE OF JOBS FOR
HOOVER, A CORRUPT PHISH AGENT,
STEALING SECRETS OUT OF THE
GRAND JURY, TURNING THEM OVER TO
REPORTERS THE FRUITS OF HIS
CRIMES TO BRING DOWN A
PRESIDENT.
THIS WAS A TOUGHER RAY.
I WAS OFFERED THE HEADSHIP OF
THE PLUMBERS AND I WENT OVER AND
LOOKED AT THESE COWBOYS AND SAID
I DON'T THINK I WANT TO DO THIS
JOB, BUT SOME STUPID IDIOT WENT
INTO GINSBURG'S PSYCHIATRY
OFFICE FOR WHAT PURPOSE I DON'T
KNOW BUT NIXON DIDN'T KNOW IT.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE NOT GOING
TO RESOLVE SO MUCH OF THIS BUT
WE'LL KEEP ON TRYING.
I AM INTERESTED, LUKE NICHTER,
AND AFTER LISTENING TO 3,000
HOURS OF THE TAPES, WHAT MORE
DID YOU LEARN ABOUT THIS MAN?
WE THINK WE KNOW EVERYTHING BUT
YOU LEARNED MORE.
>> I THINK WHAT I'VE COME AWAY
WITH, I THINK, A DEEPER
APPRECIATION FOR BOTH HIS GOOD
TRAITS AND HIS FAULTS.
I SAY LET'S GIVE NIXON CREDIT
WHERE CREDIT IS DUE AND LET'S
CONTINUE TO CRITICIZE WHERE WE
THINK CRITICISM IS DUE.
IF IT'S CLEAR WITH THIS
DISCUSSION THAT NIXON OCCUPIES
THIS UNIQUE PLACE IN OUR PUBLIC
CONSCIOUSNESS, YOU HAVE TO PUT
PRESIDENTS IN BOXES.
WE HAVE THE TOP AND BOTTOM
THIRD, AVERAGE, BELOW AVERAGE.
WHERE DOES NIXON FALL?
WHAT BOX DO WE PUT HIM IN?
CAN A BOX EVEN CONTAIN HIM.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S A GOOD
QUESTION FOR SOMEBODY LIKE YOU
WHO LOOKS AT CONTEMPORARY
HISTORY, BEVERLY GAGE.
>> HE FITS INTO A LOT OF BOXES.
SO IF YOU'RE GOING TO DO YOUR
PURE NUMERICAL RANKINGS OF HOW
SUCCESSFUL A PRESIDENT WAS
CERTAINLY THE ONLY PRESIDENT TO
RESIGN ENDS UP PRETTY CLOSE TO
THE BOTTOM BUT THERE'S A WHOLE
SERIES OF REVISIONIST
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT NIXON, WAS HE
ACTUALLY A LIBERAL, THAT BY
TODAY'S POLITICAL STANDARDS, THE
MAN WHO FOUNDED THE E.P.A. --
>> Woodruff: A REPUBLICAN WHO
FOUNDED THE E.P.A., WOMEN'S
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT, STARTED THE
WAR ON CANCER, YOU COULD GO ON.
>> EXACTLY, AND MANY PEOPLE NOW
ARE ACTUALLY LOOKING BACK TO
NIXON WITH THIS ROMANTIC BLEND
OF MODERATE REPUBLICAN.
>> Woodruff: SO PAT BUCHANAN,
HELP US UNDERSTAND.
TODAY WE THINK OF REPS IN ONE
WAY.
HE WAS A DIFFERENT KIND OF
REPUBLICAN.
>> HE WAS AN EISENHOWER ERA
THE CONSERVATIVE MOVEMENT TO
REPUBLICAN.
WHICH I BELONG BEGAN IN THE LATE
THE CONSERVATIVE MOVEMENT TO
'50s.
WHICH I BELONG BEGAN IN THE LATE
NIXON WAS ALREADY AN
'50s.
INTERNATIONAL FIGURE THEN.
NIXON WAS ALREADY AN
I LOOKED UPON HIM AS A
INTERNATIONAL FIGURE THEN.
PRAGMATIST WHO WAS NOT INTO
I LOOKED UPON HIM AS A
GOVERNMENT, HE CAME OUT OF
PRAGMATIST WHO WAS NOT INTO
POVERTY.
GOVERNMENT, HE CAME OUT OF
I'M SURE HE DIDN'T THINK THE NEW
POVERTY.
DEAL WAS GOING DOWN THE ROAD TO
I'M SURE HE DIDN'T THINK THE NEW
SOCIALISM.
DEAL WAS GOING DOWN THE ROAD TO
I LISTENED TO THE TAPES THE
SOCIALISM.
OTHER NIGHT AND HE HAD HAD
I LISTENED TO THE TAPES THE
SCURRILOUS COMMENTS ABOUT JEWISH
OTHER NIGHT AND HE HAD HAD
FOLKS AND (INDISCERNIBLE).
SCURRILOUS COMMENTS ABOUT JEWISH
I WAS WITH HIM WITH ISRAEL IN
FOLKS AND (INDISCERNIBLE).
THE YOM KIPPUR WAR.
I WAS WITH HIM WITH ISRAEL IN
YOU PUT IT TOGETHER AND YOU GET
THE YOM KIPPUR WAR.
A PICTURE OF SOMEONE WHO'S A
YOU PUT IT TOGETHER AND YOU GET
POWERFUL, MASTERFUL FIGURE.
A PICTURE OF SOMEONE WHO'S A
>> Woodruff: HOW DID HE CHANGE
POWERFUL, MASTERFUL FIGURE.
THIS COUNTRY?
>> Woodruff: HOW DID HE CHANGE
I MEAN, IT CAN BE ARGUED THAT
THIS COUNTRY?
THE WAY WE VIEW GOVERNMENT,
I MEAN, IT CAN BE ARGUED THAT
GOVERNMENT ITSELF CHANGED AS A
THE WAY WE VIEW GOVERNMENT,
RESULT OF RICHARD NIXON.
GOVERNMENT ITSELF CHANGED AS A
>> WELL, ONE THING IS THAT NO
RESULT OF RICHARD NIXON.
PRESIDENT TAPES ANYMORE.
>> WELL, ONE THING IS THAT NO
THE OTHER THING THAT'S QUITE
PRESIDENT TAPES ANYMORE.
DIFFERENT THAT I'VE TOLD RICHARD
THE OTHER THING THAT'S QUITE
NIXON, PRESIDENT OWN THEIR
DIFFERENT THAT I'VE TOLD RICHARD
PAPERS, SO THE ACTUAL
NIXON, PRESIDENT OWN THEIR
DOCUMENTATION OF THE PRESIDENCY
PAPERS, SO THE ACTUAL
HAS CHANGED DRAMATICALLY BECAUSE
DOCUMENTATION OF THE PRESIDENCY
OF THE NIXON ERA.
HAS CHANGED DRAMATICALLY BECAUSE
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT RICHARD
OF THE NIXON ERA.
RICH FORCED A LOT OF AMERICANS
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT RICHARD
TO THINK ABOUT WHAT THEY WANT
RICH FORCED A LOT OF AMERICANS
THEIR PRESIDENT TO DO.
TO THINK ABOUT WHAT THEY WANT
YOU KNOW, THE REASON WHY RICHARD
THEIR PRESIDENT TO DO.
NIXON, I BELIEVE, WOULD NOT HAVE
YOU KNOW, THE REASON WHY RICHARD
RESIGNED HAD IT NOT BEEN FOR THE
NIXON, I BELIEVE, WOULD NOT HAVE
TAPES IS THAT WE AMERICANS
RESIGNED HAD IT NOT BEEN FOR THE
PREFER OUR PRESIDENTS TO BE
TAPES IS THAT WE AMERICANS
RIGHT.
PREFER OUR PRESIDENTS TO BE
WE'LL DISAGREE WITH THEM, BUT AT
RIGHT.
A CERTAIN POINT, THE PRESIDENT
WE'LL DISAGREE WITH THEM, BUT AT
IS OUR BALD EAGLE.
A CERTAIN POINT, THE PRESIDENT
WE NEED PRESIDENTS THAT ARE
IS OUR BALD EAGLE.
BETTER THAN AVERAGE, AND RICHARD
WE NEED PRESIDENTS THAT ARE
NIXON TESTED THAT AND MADE A LOT
BETTER THAN AVERAGE, AND RICHARD
OF PEOPLE IN CONGRESS IN THE
NIXON TESTED THAT AND MADE A LOT
SUPREME COURT, IN THE PRESS AND
OF PEOPLE IN CONGRESS IN THE
IN THE PUBLIC THINK ABOUT WHAT
SUPREME COURT, IN THE PRESS AND
SHOULD THE LIMITS BE ON ANY MAN
IN THE PUBLIC THINK ABOUT WHAT
WHO OCCUPIES -- AND SOME DAY I
SHOULD THE LIMITS BE ON ANY MAN
HOPE A WOMAN -- WHO OCCUPIES THE
WHO OCCUPIES -- AND SOME DAY I
WHITE HOUSE?
HOPE A WOMAN -- WHO OCCUPIES THE
FOR THAT, RICHARD NIXON WILL BE
WHITE HOUSE?
FOREVER REMEMBERED.
FOR THAT, RICHARD NIXON WILL BE
>> Woodruff: LUKE NICHTER,
FOREVER REMEMBERED.
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT?
>> Woodruff: LUKE NICHTER,
>> I'D ADD THAT NOT JUST THE
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT?
NIXON PRESIDENCY BUT REALLY THE
>> I'D ADD THAT NOT JUST THE
LONG 1960s FUNDAMENTALLY
NIXON PRESIDENCY BUT REALLY THE
REORDERED THE RELATIONSHIP
LONG 1960s FUNDAMENTALLY
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE
REORDERED THE RELATIONSHIP
GOVERNED.
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE
YOUNG PEOPLE WANTED TO GO TO
GOVERNED.
JOURNALISM AS A RESULT AND
YOUNG PEOPLE WANTED TO GO TO
PEOPLE HAVE BECOME MORE CYNICAL
JOURNALISM AS A RESULT AND
OF THEIR POLITICAL LEADERS.
PEOPLE HAVE BECOME MORE CYNICAL
SOME WAYS IT'S BETTER, IT'S
OF THEIR POLITICAL LEADERS.
CREATED GREATER TRANSPARENCY BUT
SOME WAYS IT'S BETTER, IT'S
ULTIMATELY CHANGED THE COUNTRY
CREATED GREATER TRANSPARENCY BUT
IN SO MANY WAYS E. .
ULTIMATELY CHANGED THE COUNTRY
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO TURN TO
IN SO MANY WAYS E. .
BEVERLY GAGE.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO TURN TO
DID WE PERMANENTLY BECOME MORE
BEVERLY GAGE.
CYNICAL RESULT OF WATERGATE AND
DID WE PERMANENTLY BECOME MORE
THE NIXON PRESIDENCY?
CYNICAL RESULT OF WATERGATE AND
DO WE GIVE HIM THE CREDIT OR
THE NIXON PRESIDENCY?
DISCREDIT FOR THAT?
DO WE GIVE HIM THE CREDIT OR
>> I THINK WE DID.
DISCREDIT FOR THAT?
I WOULD ADD TWO THINGS TO WHAT'S
>> I THINK WE DID.
ALREADY BEEN SAID, ONE IS THAT
I WOULD ADD TWO THINGS TO WHAT'S
WE ALSO HAVE THE LOOK AT
ALREADY BEEN SAID, ONE IS THAT
WATERGATE NOT REALLY AS ENDING
WE ALSO HAVE THE LOOK AT
WITH THE RESIGNATION BUT HAVING
WATERGATE NOT REALLY AS ENDING
A SERIES OF CONSEQUENCES
WITH THE RESIGNATION BUT HAVING
AFTERWARDS, PARTICULARLY THROUGH
A SERIES OF CONSEQUENCES
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY BEGAN
AFTERWARDS, PARTICULARLY THROUGH
TO HAVE A WHOLE SERIES OF
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY BEGAN
STUDIES OF GOVERNMENT SECRECY
TO HAVE A WHOLE SERIES OF
AND THOSE FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGED
STUDIES OF GOVERNMENT SECRECY
IN THE '70s.
AND THOSE FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGED
THE SECOND THING I WOULD ADD IS
IN THE '70s.
I DO THINK IT CHANGED AMERICANS
THE SECOND THING I WOULD ADD IS
ATTITUDES TOWARDS GOVERNMENT AND
I DO THINK IT CHANGED AMERICANS
THEIR EXPECTATIONS OF GOVERNMENT
ATTITUDES TOWARDS GOVERNMENT AND
IN A FUNNY WAY.
THEIR EXPECTATIONS OF GOVERNMENT
IF YOU HAD BEEN HERE IN 1974 ON
IN A FUNNY WAY.
THIS DAY AND SAID WHAT'S GOING
IF YOU HAD BEEN HERE IN 1974 ON
TO HAPPEN TO THE REPUBLICAN
THIS DAY AND SAID WHAT'S GOING
PARTY?
TO HAPPEN TO THE REPUBLICAN
YOU WOULD HAVE SAID THEY'RE
PARTY?
FINISHED!
YOU WOULD HAVE SAID THEY'RE
BUT IN A FUNNY WAY THIS
FINISHED!
SUSPICION OF GOVERNMENT
BUT IN A FUNNY WAY THIS
BENEFITED --
SUSPICION OF GOVERNMENT
>> THERE WAS A GOOD FEELING IN
BENEFITED --
AMERICA.
>> THERE WAS A GOOD FEELING IN
YOU HAD LYNDON JOHNSON AND NIXON
AMERICA.
AND JOHNSON WAS BROKEN BY THE
YOU HAD LYNDON JOHNSON AND NIXON
SAME CULTURAL, POLITICAL, MORAL
AND JOHNSON WAS BROKEN BY THE
REVOLUTION, CIVIL RIGHTS,
SAME CULTURAL, POLITICAL, MORAL
ANTI-WAR, ALL THE REST OF UT,
REVOLUTION, CIVIL RIGHTS,
URBAN RIGHTS, ALL THE THINGS
ANTI-WAR, ALL THE REST OF UT,
THAT CAME OUT OF THE '60s THAT
URBAN RIGHTS, ALL THE THINGS
PERMANENTLY BROUGHT DOWN NIXON
THAT CAME OUT OF THE '60s THAT
AND JOHNSON PERMANENTLY DIVIDED
PERMANENTLY BROUGHT DOWN NIXON
AMERICA.
AND JOHNSON PERMANENTLY DIVIDED
NOT ONLY THAT, THAT DIVISION HAS
AMERICA.
GROWN AND THE COUNTERCULTURE IS
NOT ONLY THAT, THAT DIVISION HAS
DOMINANT NOW.
GROWN AND THE COUNTERCULTURE IS
THESE ARE THE SEEDS OF THE WARS
DOMINANT NOW.
WE'RE FIGHTING TODAY.
THESE ARE THE SEEDS OF THE WARS
YOU CAN SEE THE GOLDWATER BATTLE
WE'RE FIGHTING TODAY.
TODAY.
YOU CAN SEE THE GOLDWATER BATTLE
I DON'T KNOW THAT THE REPUBLICAN
TODAY.
PARTY CAN COME BACK THE BECAUSE
I DON'T KNOW THAT THE REPUBLICAN
IT HAS PERMANENTLY LOST A
PARTY CAN COME BACK THE BECAUSE
SIGNIFICANT SLICE OF THE
IT HAS PERMANENTLY LOST A
COUNTRY.
SIGNIFICANT SLICE OF THE
>> Woodruff: WE ARE RAISING
COUNTRY.
SUBJECTS WE COULD GO ON ABOUT
>> Woodruff: WE ARE RAISING
AND WILL HAVE OTHER
SUBJECTS WE COULD GO ON ABOUT
OPPORTUNITIES TO COME BACK.
AND WILL HAVE OTHER
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
OPPORTUNITIES TO COME BACK.
WE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
IT WAS WIDELY REPORTED THIS
EVENING THAT THE U.S. MILITARY
HAS BEGAN AIR DROPPING
HUMANITARIAN AID TO YAZIDIS
FLEEING ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA IS ALSO
CONSIDERING AIR STRIKES.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
RETURNEDTO AFGHANISTAN IN AN
URGENT BID TO END THE DEADLOCK
OVER WHO WON THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION.
AND RUSSIA FORMALLY BANNED
IMPORTS OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
FROM THE U.S. AND EUROPE, EVEN
AS NATO WARNED MOSCOW NOT TO
SEND TROOPS INTO UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, MAKING THE
DECISION TO PUT DOWN YOUR PET IS
NEVER EASY, BUT A KANSAS BIO-
SCIENCE FIRM IS OFFERING DOG AND
CAT OWNERS A LITTLE COMFORT IN
THE FORM OF AN ORGAN DONATION.
NOW, TISSUE TAKEN FROM A
EUTHANIZED ANIMAL CAN BE USED IN
RESEARCH FOCUSED ON ADVANCING
THE TREATMENT OF CANINE AND
FELINE DIABETES.
THE PRACTICE ALSO HELPS TO
PRESERVE THE LIVES OF RESEARCH
ANIMALS.
READ MORE ABOUT THE PROGRAM,
FROM OUR PARTNERS AT KANSAS CITY
PUBLIC TV, ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, JUDY TALKS WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF SOMALIA ABOUT THE
RECENT UPTICK IN TERRORIST
ATTACKS BY THE ISLAMIC MILITANTS
OF AL SHABAB.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.